---
category: "articles"
name: "gender-stereotype"
title: "Don’t be Chained by Stereotype Buckets"
time: "Mon Oct 1, 2024"
description: "I cannot say my gender identity is completely male, even though I have always identified myself as male."
---

# Don’t be Chained by Stereotype Buckets

Samuel Zhang

Identities, including gender, race, culture, and nationality, significantly impact people's thoughts and behaviors.
Among all of these, gender identities have either the tiniest influence, because they are so common, or the biggest
influence because they are the identity we were aware of since we were very young and impact a person's growth. I cannot
say my gender identity is completely male, even though I have always identified myself as male.

Biologically, I was born and raised as a boy, and no one misidentified me as a girl. However, because of some of my
personality and behaviors, my parents and even others sometimes told me that I was more like a girl in some ways. I felt
totally weird and confused. Am I not a boy? Why does everyone who knows me well say that? I tried to figure out why, and
after I recognized the differences and divisions between boys and girls, I understood the reasons completely. (verbs
paraphrased by ChatGPT) I was thin and short, possibly the size of a girl, and I was usually in the girl-row when taking
class pictures. Moreover, I was quiet and didn’t like to play outside, running and shouting, not like other boys of my
age. All these points of view were based on and directed by one thing: gender norms and stereotypes.

In China, gender norms and stereotypes set that a person of a specific gender should have certain characteristics. They
together solidify people’s perceptions. For example, men are strong and aggressive; women are good at communicating but
poor at math. Gender norms and stereotypes exist because there are lots of people as evidence. Their aligned
personalities and behaviors shape those gender norms. However, there are still lots of people who are not adaptive to
those standards. They are influenced by gender norms and stereotypes, expected or enforced to be the people they are
required to be. For instance, an interfaith activist and the editor of the Muslim literary magazine, Blue Minaret,
Saadia Faruqi, in her newspaper article “Cut from the Same Cloth” published in 2017, shares her personal story living as
a Muslim woman. She narrates that after her supervisor asked her “Why don’t you wear that thing I’ve seen other Muslim
women wear”, she began to wear a hijab, a cloth expressing the Muslim faith, modesty, and decorum. (Faruqi 194) Although
Faruqi didn’t dislike wearing it, her start of this behavior, clearly, was influenced by the religious stereotypes the
supervisor mentioned. The same question for the gender stereotypes version is “Why don’t you wear the clothes I’ve seen
other girls of your age wear” or “Why do you wear the clothes I’ve never seen other boys of your age wear?” Many
individuals face pressure from their surroundings. As a result, they are compelled to conform to the gender norms. (
paraphrased by ChatGPT)

The horrible thing about stereotypes is that they change both your subconsciousness and consciousness. Noticing some of
my characteristics were girl-like as people told me, I gradually accepted those comments and questioned myself: Would it
be better if I were a girl? Am I willing to be a female? If yes, is it due to my deep inner identity or just others’
influences on me? These were confusing and complicated. However, because of my male identity, I was still expected to be
more “male”. I was expected to be tall and strong. I was expected to be tolerable and outgoing. As time went by, these
expectations became my own will and I voluntarily hoped to be more masculine.

Nevertheless, some masculine characteristics and behaviors are not acceptable to me. It is difficult for me to tolerate
the aggressive and harassing behaviors exhibited by some men. As a transgender writer, teacher, and speaker, Alex Myers,
in 2017, in his essay “How #MeToo Taught Me I Can Never Be a Man”, argues that transforming from a woman to a man
doesn’t mean he agrees with all men's thoughts and behaviors. He reinforces this claim by presenting the harassment he
experienced when he was a girl, expressing disgust toward those behaviors, and stating that he refuses to act like men.
He says, “I hear how men talk about women when they think there aren’t any women present. And I never feel more like a
woman than when I am alone with men.” (Myers 257) I also experienced such awkward and annoying atmosphere. A lot of my
male peers in my high school liked to judge women’s appearances and they thought it was nothing at all. They talked
about the beautiful girls in the class. When they mentioned girls who were not good-looking, they expressed disgusting
noises. I always refused to join this kind of gossip, but I had no choice but to listen to them when I couldn’t leave.
So far as I know, this is a typical scenario that often happen when men think there are no women present. Do men have
the privilege of judging women? Under such circumstances, I could not identify myself as a male.

These mixed thoughts made me think about which side I was supposed to stand with and how to identify myself. In the
article “Stop Using the Word ‘Asian’” in 2021, the author Isvari Maranwe, who is the co-founder and president of Dweebs
Global, an international nonprofit providing advocacy and support to those in need, argues that diverse people cannot be
pushed in a certain bucket only based on some shared points. As an Indian American, she refuses to identify herself as
Asian because there are different types of Asians, including Chinese and Indians, and sometimes racism against Indians
is resulted by those against Chinese. Even Indians themselves have different skin colors, languages, and religions. She
also mentioned that referring all people from East and South Asia as just “Asian” produces huge stereotyping problems. (
Maranwe 55, 56) Even if belonging to the same group, individuals can have significant differences. They do not have to
agree with each other, talk, or act like each other. Faruqi also taught her daughter about the hijab in a larger
context. Except for being a Muslim, she is also a woman, an American, and a human. The hijab doesn’t limit her to only
the Muslim group and she and her daughter are free to choose. Her daughter may or not wear the hijab in the future, but
the fortunate thing is she can make her own decision one day. These ideas give me tremendous inspiration. I can still
identify myself as a male because I live comfortable as a man and it is the real inner identity of myself. However, for
those masculine behaviors I cannot accept, I can make the decision not to be a man for that moment. Just like Myers
said, while I may identify as your group and look like you, I can choose not to talk or act like you.

It is easy to put people in the same buckets based on biology. Psychologically and behaviorally, however, it is
impossible since everyone is unique and unlimited. Despite those mixed thoughts still lingering, I realize there are no
required or “should” patterns I must follow. No matter what my gender identity is, it will never label me to a specific
characteristic; rather, it offers me the chance to deeply think about myself and the freedom to define myself on my own
values and preferences. Furthermore, it keeps me concerned about different societal situations of different genders and
compassionate about people who are distortedly influenced by gender stereotypes.
(1253 words)

**Works Cited**

Faruqi, Saadia. “Cut from the Same Cloth.” America Now: Short Essays on Current Issues, edited by Robert Atwan. 14th
ed., Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2023, pp. 192-195.

Maranwe, Isvari. “Stop Using the Word ‘Asian’” America Now: Short Essays on Current Issues, edited by Robert Atwan. 14th
ed., Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2023, pp. 54-57.

Myers, Alex. “How #MeToo Taught Me I Can Never Be a Man” America Now: Short Essays on Current Issues, edited by Robert
Atwan. 14th ed., Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2023, pp. 255-258.

“Confused Gender Identity Icon.”
Iconfinder, https://www.iconfinder.com/icons/6245583/confused_gender_identity_questioning_icon.
